New tutorial explaining how to prevent FOUC in A/B tests (#9837)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/prevent-fouc-ab-tests.md

> ---

Reviewer: Let's also add this as a question to the docs FAQ:  https://posthog.com/docs/experiments/common-questions

Author: Added with 0946f12ae

title: How to prevent Flash of Unstyled Content (FOUC) during A/B tests

> date: 2024-11-08

Reviewer: don't forget to update date when shipping

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2024-11-13
```

author:
  - daniel-bachhuber
showTitle: true
sidebar: Docs
tags:
  - experimentation
---

It's cruel enough to subject your visitors to an A/B test, but it's even worse if they know about it!

> The "Flash of Unstyled Content" (FOUC) happens when users briefly see the control variant before the test variant loads. It's a common issue when running experiments on website building platforms, and happens when the control variant briefly renders before the test variant loads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flashing of content (also known as [FOUC – Flash of Unstyled Content](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flash_of_unstyled_content)) happens when users briefly see the control variant before the test variant loads. It's a common issue when running experiments on the frontend.
```

If you're unable to [bootstrap the feature flags into the document](/docs/feature-flags/bootstrapping), which generally requires access to server-side code, the best thing you can do is briefly delay the page from displaying until the experiment code executes.

Here's a short example as to how you might do this.

## 1. Prevent the page from displaying

First, you'll need to prevent the page from displaying while the PostHog JavaScript library loads.

Before the `</head>` tag, add the following CSS definition:

```html
<style>
.ph-hide-element {
    opacity: 0 !important;
}
</style>
```

> This code snippet defines a new CSS rule that applies 0 opacity to any element with a `ph-hide-element` class. You might want to add it after the PostHog web snippet so you remember why it's there.

Reviewer: "You might want to add it after the PostHog web snippet so you remember why it's there."
I dont understand what this means or why its helpful?

Author: > I dont understand what this means

It's a suggestion to put the `<style>` tag after the PostHog web snippet:

```html
<script>
    !function(t,e){var o,n,p,r;e.__SV||(window.posthog=e,e._i=[],e.init=function(i,s,a){function g(t,e){var o=e.split(".");2==o.length&&(t=t[o[0]],e=o[1]),t[e]=function(){t.push([e].concat(Array.prototype.slice.call(arguments,0)))}}(p=t.createElement("script")).type="text/javascript",p.crossOrigin="anonymous",p.async=!0,p.src=s.api_host.replace(".i.posthog.com","-assets.i.posthog.com")+"/static/array.js",(r=t.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]).parentNode.insertBefore(p,r);var u=e;for(void 0!==a?u=e[a]=[]:a="posthog",u.people=u.people||[],u.toString=function(t){var e="posthog";return"posthog"!==a&&(e+="."+a),t||(e+=" (stub)"),e},u.people.toString=function(){return u.toString(1)+".people (stub)"},o="init capture register register_once register_for_session unregister unregister_for_session getFeatureFlag getFeatureFlagPayload isFeatureEnabled reloadFeatureFlags updateEarlyAccessFeatureEnrollment getEarlyAccessFeatures on onFeatureFlags onSessionId getSurveys getActiveMatchingSurveys renderSurvey canRenderSurvey getNextSurveyStep identify setPersonProperties group resetGroups setPersonPropertiesForFlags resetPersonPropertiesForFlags setGroupPropertiesForFlags resetGroupPropertiesForFlags reset get_distinct_id getGroups get_session_id get_session_replay_url alias set_config startSessionRecording stopSessionRecording sessionRecordingStarted captureException loadToolbar get_property getSessionProperty createPersonProfile opt_in_capturing opt_out_capturing has_opted_in_capturing has_opted_out_capturing clear_opt_in_out_capturing debug".split(" "),n=0;n<o.length;n++)g(u,o[n]);e._i.push([i,s,a])},e.__SV=1)}(document,window.posthog||[]);
    posthog.init('<ph_project_api_key>', {api_host: 'https://us.i.posthog.com', person_profiles: 'identified_only'})
</script>
<style>
.ph-hide-element {
    opacity: 0 !important;
}
</style>
```

> why its helpful?

Marketing sites often end up with a bunch of junk in the `<head>`, and it can be difficult to figure out why it's there.

I went with inline comments instead: 1fc454441

> Then, immediately after the `<body>` tag, add the following JavaScript:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then add the class to the element you want to hide:
```html
<div class="ph-hide-element">
```

Alternatively, you can hide the entire page by adding the class to the `<body>` element. If you don't have direct access to this element, you can add the below JavaScript:
```

```html
<script>
(function() {
    document.body.classList.add('ph-hide-element');
}())
</script>
```

> This code snippet applies the `ph-hide-element` class to the `<body>` element, thus hiding the entire contents of the page. If you have direct access to the `<body>` element, you can also simply add the `ph-hide-element` class to the element and avoid the JavaScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Refresh the page and verify the content doesn't display. If you see a white screen of joy, you have successfully completed this first step.

## 2. Display the page once the feature flags are loaded

> Next, you'll need to ensure the page is displayed once the feature flags are evaluated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you need to ensure the page is displayed once the flags have been loaded for your A/B test.
```

> If your experiment changes the contents of the page, you'll want to add the following JavaScript immediately before the closing `</body>` tag:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following code before the closing `</body>` tag:
```

```html
<script>
posthog.onFeatureFlags(() => {

>     var variant = posthog.getFeatureFlag('ahhhh-fouc-test')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    var variant = posthog.getFeatureFlag('your_experiment_feature_flag')
```

    if ( 'test' === variant ) {

>         var headings = document.querySelectorAll('h1');
>         if ( headings && headings[0] ) {
>             headings[0].innerText = "Here's Max!"
>         }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // if needed, update your page for the test variant. 
        // this is not needed if you update your code elsewhere.
```

    }

>     // Need to make sure we always display the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Remove the class to display the page
```

    document.body.classList.remove('ph-hide-element');
});
</script>
```

> This code snippet modifies the text of the first `<h1>` to "Here's Max!" when the visitor is assigned to the 'test' variant of the 'ahhhh-fouc-test' experiment. Make sure to replace 'ahhhh-fouc-test' with whatever alphanumeric slug you've assigned to your experiment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Refresh the page and verify the content now displays after a brief pause. If you end up with the 'test' variant on the first load, go buy a lottery ticket! Otherwise, you can run `posthog.featureFlags.override({'ahhhh-fouc-test': 'test'})` in your Developer Console and refresh the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refresh the page and verify the content now displays after a brief pause.
```

---
title: How to prevent flashing of content during A/B tests
date: 2024-11-08
author:
  - daniel-bachhuber
showTitle: true
sidebar: Docs
tags:
  - experimentation
---

> Flashing of content (also known as [FOUC – Flash of Unstyled Content](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flash_of_unstyled_content)) happens when users briefly see the control variant before the test variant loads. It's a common issue when running experiments on the frontend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flashing of content (also known as [FOUC – Flash of unstyled content](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flash_of_unstyled_content)) happens when users briefly see the control variant before the test variant loads. It's a common issue when running experiments on the frontend.
```

> If you're unable to [bootstrap the feature flags into the document](/docs/feature-flags/bootstrapping), which generally requires access to server-side code, the best thing you can do is briefly delay the page from displaying until the experiment code executes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're unable to [bootstrap feature flags in your app](/docs/feature-flags/bootstrapping), which generally requires access to server-side code, the best thing you can do is briefly delay the page from displaying until the experiment code executes.
```

---
title: How to prevent flashing of content during A/B tests
date: 2024-11-08
author:
  - daniel-bachhuber
showTitle: true
sidebar: Docs
tags:
  - experimentation
---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
